= Introduction =
*CAMIF (CAMera InterFace)* within the S3C2440A consists of 7 parts 
	* pattern mux
	* capturing unit
	* preview scaler
	* codec scaler
	* preview DMA
	* codec DMA
	* SFR.

* The CAMIF supports ITU-R BT.601/656 YCbCr 8-bit standard. 

* Maximum input size is 4096x4096 pixels (2048x2048 pixels for scaling) and two scalers exist. 

* Preview scaler is dedicated to generate smaller size image like PIP (Picture In Picture) 

* codec scaler is dedicated to generate codec useful image like plane type YCbCr 4:2:0 or 4:2:2.

* Two master DMAs can do mirror and rotate the captured image for mobile environments. 

*TWO DMA PATHS*

CAMIF has 2 DMA paths. P-path (Preview path) and C-path (Codec path) are separated from each other on the
AHB bus. 


* In view of the system bus, both the paths are independent. 

* The P-path stores the RGB image data intomemory for PIP. 

* The C-path stores the YCbCr 4:2:0 or 4:2:2 image data into memory for Codec as MPEG-4, H.263,etc. 


*FRAME MEMORY HIRERARCHY*

Frame memories consist of four ping-pong memories for each of P and C paths .

C-path ping-pong memories have three element memories – luminance Y, chrominance Cb, and chrominance Cr.

If AHB-bus traffic is not enough for the DMA operation to complete during one horizontal line period, it may lead to malfunctioning

*MEMORY STORING METHOD*

The little-endian method in codec path is used to store in the frame memory. The pixels are stored from LSB to MSB
side. 

AHB bus carries 32-bit word data. So, CAMIF makes each of the Y-Cb-Cr words in little-endian style. 

For preview path, two different formats exist. One pixel (Color 1 pixel) is one word for RGB 24-bit format. Otherwise, 
two pixels are one word for RGB 16-bit format.

=Registers=
Register :CIGCTRL
||CIGCTRL||BIT||Description||
||SwRst ||[31] ||Camera interface software reset ||
||CamRst ||[30]|| External camera processor reset or power down ||
||Reserved|| [29]|| This bit is reserved and the value must be 1. ||

{{{
/* software reset camera interface. */
static void __inline__ soft_reset_camif(void)
{       
        u32 cigctrl;
        
        cigctrl = (1<<31)|(1<<29);
        iowrite32(cigctrl, S3C244X_CIGCTRL);
        mdelay(10);

        cigctrl = (1<<29);
        iowrite32(cigctrl, S3C244X_CIGCTRL);
        mdelay(10);
}

/* software reset camera interface. */
static void __inline__ hw_reset_camif(void)
{
        u32 cigctrl;

        cigctrl = (1<<30)|(1<<29);
        iowrite32(cigctrl, S3C244X_CIGCTRL);
        mdelay(10);

        cigctrl = (1<<29);
        iowrite32(cigctrl, S3C244X_CIGCTRL);
        mdelay(10);

}
}}}


*Register:CISRCFMT[Input source format register]*

{{{
/* update CISRCFMT only. */
static void __inline__ update_source_fmt_regs(s3c2440camif_dev * pdev)
{
        u32 cisrcfmt;

        cisrcfmt = (1<<31)                                      // ITU-R BT.601 YCbCr 8-bit mode
                                |(0<<30)                                // CB,Cr value offset cntrol for YCbCr
                                |(pdev->sensor.width<<16)       // source image width
//                              |(0<<14)                                // input order is YCbYCr
//                              |(1<<14)                                // input order is YCrYCb
                                |(2<<14)                                // input order is CbYCrY
//                              |(3<<14)                                // input order is CrYCbY
                                |(pdev->sensor.height<<0);      // source image height

        iowrite32(cisrcfmt, S3C244X_CISRCFMT);
}
}}}

*CICOTRGFMT Target image format of codec DMA*


{{{
static void __inline__ update_target_fmt_regs(s3c2440camif_dev * pdev)

 /* CICOTRGFMT. */
  cicrtrgfmt =  (1<<31) //use input YCbCr:422 mode
               |(1<<30) //use output YCbCr:422 mode
               |(pdev->v2f.fmt.pix.width<<16)   // horizontal pixel number of target image
               |(0<<14)            // don't mirror or rotation.
               |(pdev->v2f.fmt.pix.height<<0); // vertical pixel number of target image

  iowrite32(cicrtrgfmt, S3C244X_CICOTRGFMT);
}}}